Good morning. Happy Friday. We are half
an hour from the open. Hong Kong,
Shanghai, and Shenzhen. You're watching
the China Show. I'm David Ingles with
Annabelle Jewelers. Our top stories,
Asian stocks trade sideways as Wall
Street races to a record after better
thanex expected jobs reports, pushing
back bets on Fed interest rate cuts.
President Trump scores a major
legislative win here as Congress passes
his so-called big beautiful bill cutting
taxes as well as spending on social
safety nets and clean energy programs.
Also ahead, US trading partners brace
for letters on tariff rates from
Washington, which Trump says may be sent
out starting Friday. Plus, Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant says the
dollar's place as the world's reserve
currency is secure, rejecting the idea
of the Chinese currency as an
alternative,
[Music]
right? Going into the weekend. So the
lack of the lead of course is the um
from US markets at least because of the
holidays. So we're not getting cash
treasuries up and running. Although that
being said, of course there's still a
lot of news to to trade on today.
Everything from the payrolls number from
the comments coming through out of the
US Treasury Secretary and of course the
outperformance that we've seen now for a
third week. In fact, you know, as it
pertains to the S&P 500 against most of
its peers, it's actually on track for
quite a big gap in performance uh in in
the last well, let's call it 10 weeks uh
10 weeks or so. Now, all that being
said, uh we did also get some data
coming through. So, we'll recap the Hong
Kong PM numbers in a moment there. So,
we got that out. We should be getting
out uh we should be getting the
Philippine inflation numbers coming
through any moment now. And of course
later on in a couple of hours, it's
retail sales and that's uh snapshot
across the markets in Singapore. Uh
Bloomberg dollar and you have the 2-year
bond futures as you can see. So
reversing some of the weakness although
it was substantial drop in two-year
futures yesterday repricing of course on
the back of pushing back uh that first
Fed rate cut which was initially priced
before the data came out July maybe
September. That's now being priced fully
for October. Currently that's a moving
target of course. dollar Taiwan uh first
close I believe below the 29 handle. Um
so we did get that yesterday and as you
can see reversing that somewhat and of
course the big story across Hong Kong is
when will highore start to reflect all
this intervention coming through um from
the HKMA third time this week I think in
terms of the size of what they're
actually doing is uh the one today was
bigger than the one that we had midweek
which was bigger than the one at the
start of the week. Uh so we'll unpack
the story for you later on and as you
can see some weakness coming through
here going into the last session of the
week. Uh we're watching everything from
solar to Alibaba. We'll get to that in a
moment. But the opening bell is about 27
minutes away. More on the PMI numbers of
course which came out. Yeah. Well,
they're really uh they're really not the
numbers I guess that Hong Kong wants to
see, especially on the week where you're
you're marking that 28th handover
anniversary to Hong Kong and it's been
that really big talk or mainland China
rather, but that big talk around around
the the economic strength that you're
seeing. But I mean the the numbers that
just came out earlier you you're going
further into contractionary territory.
So 47.8 the previous reading had been
49.
What do you make of it? Well, I mean
it's it's a reminder I guess that it is
a you know this is a very open economy,
right? Which is subject to flows when
you look at the Hong Kong dollar for
example and when you look at the trade
conversation coming through that is
perhaps a reflection of that as well,
right? The weakness still in the Chinese
economy and of course the uncertainty
around trade might be might be
contributing to what was to your point
really a surprisingly no number with a
47 handle. Yeah, I think especially when
I was taking a look at things like
retail sales and you've actually sending
seen them trending up higher over the
course of 2025 and we're talking about
some signs of resurgence for instance in
in at least new home sales as well in
the market. So we'll maybe wait for more
context on that. But in the meantime, as
you said, it is that big focus on trade
and and the impact that geopolitical
tensions as well have on this city. to
that effort or to that to that end.
President Trump, for instance, is saying
that his administration could begin
sending out letters to trading partners
well as soon as Friday, so later today.
But setting unilateral tariff rates
ahead of that June 9 deadline for
negotiations.
I'd rather just do a simple deal where
you can maintain it and control it. Uh
you're going to pay a 20% or 25 or 30%
tariff. you wrote in a record and we're
going to be sending some letters out
starting probably tomorrow, maybe 10 a
day to various countries saying what
they're going to pay to do business with
the US.
Well, our news desk editor Jill Dus is
with us. So, so Jill, I mean, let's just
start off with this. Well, we're going
to get these letters maybe. Who's going
to be receiving them and and what are
they going to be saying as well? All
great questions. We don't have the
answer to Bell. I mean, this uh does
feel to me like very classic Trump uh
just kind of saying what's on his mind
and that's maybe what's going to be
policy going forward. Um really all
we've gotten so far uh out of this uh
these remarks from Trump is that he's
saying maybe there'll be 10 a day or
something like that leading up to the
July 9th deadline. I mean, Trump has
made pretty clear that he maybe doesn't
really want to extend uh this 90day
reprieve that he's given on his
Liberation Day tariff. So, he'd like to
have things resolved ahead of then. Um,
as of right now, we really don't have a
whole lot in the way of deals that are
actually done. Um, obviously the uh the
UK uh was the subject of really kind of
like that first one. Um, you've got
China, but that's a little bit of a
separate uh issue there because of uh
all of the sort of the undertones and
the undercurrents of the the US China
relationship. And then you've got this
Vietnam deal uh that came out just the
other day, although now Vietnam's saying
actually uh we're still working on that
one. So, I mean, you know, still a lot
to come there. So, if uh the idea is
that uh Trump wants to get a lot of
these deals resolved by his July 9th
deadline, I mean, it could be that he's
saying, "Look, we're basically just
going to, you know, uh slap, you know,
certain tariffs on there, and that's
just going to be, uh, it again, uh,
without a whole lot of details about
what exactly is to come." Um, I think we
still have to kind of to wait to see
exactly where Trump's going with this.
Um I will also though say that there's
quite a lot of countries that at least
are actively trying to uh continue to
hash out their own agreements with uh
the US. India strikes me as one really
prominent example. They've obviously
been working really hard to get a deal.
Um Japan another one although I think um
Japan in particular is a bit of a a
rocky situation. Trump has kind of
indicated that maybe he's not willing to
lift certain auto tariffs. But I mean
again um just bringing those up as
examples of uh nations where uh there is
a lot of uh impetus to get something
done. Whether that's part of this
letters uh policy that Trump is now
floating. Um I think that's really
unclear but really does just kind of
show you there's still uh a lot of
uncertainty going into that deadline
next week. Uh Jill, just a moment here.
We have some breaking news. This
Bloomberg scoop uh of China's plans here
to offer more cash handouts to encourage
more consumption and spending. In this
specific case, uh our understanding is
uh cash handouts to families as an
incentives uh to have more babies, for
couples to have more children, and that
the government is set to provide, this
is in US dollar terms here, five just
over$500 US a year for each child born
or on or after January 1st of this year.
Yeah. And I think also what really stood
out in this scoop, really great
reporting from from our from our team,
but is just how much the birth rates are
declining. Because if you look at the
amount of registered births, it's rough
if it's roughly half the amount that it
was back in 2016. So you're talking
about over a decade, less than half now
that we saw back then. So it's it's a
real issue that they obviously need to
address in China given you do have that
o overall population decline. Yeah.
Well, I mean kids are expensive, right?
Um but maybe a bit more than $500 a
year, but anyway, it is something in
that direction. So we did reach out of
course at a state council and they uh
did not reply to a fax request for a
comment. More on that in a moment, but
perhaps we're looking at uh in terms of
some of the baby related stocks going
into the open today among uh many many
uh other things. Right. Okay, Bill.
Jill, sorry. Okay, Bill. Well, on Bill,
the the the big beautiful bill that was
a win at least a very big win for Trump.
I mean, this you know, $3.4 trillion
dollar uh you know, spending bill here.
Uh Trump seems to have gotten pretty
much uh you know, what he was looking
for. It was really only two Republicans
in the end that sided with the Democrats
to vote no against this bill. Um, in the
House, there was a lot of concern going
into this initial vote here, saying or
this this final vote here, really
saying, um, you know, the the the Senate
obviously made some pretty significant
changes from the initial House version
of the bill, looking at deeper uh cuts,
particularly when it comes to Medicaid
spending. Um that's something that the
Democrats are almost um certainly I
shouldn't even say almost are certainly
going to campaign on when it comes to
the next general election. Uh but um
yes, I mean Trump uh made it clear he
wanted to get this bill passed by July
4th. That's Independence Day in the
United States. Um now he's going to be
able to sign it um you know on
Independence Day, July 4th. Uh and yeah,
I mean ultimately it does seem like it
came down to trying to bring together um
especially those ultra-conservatives
that maybe wanted to see even more
spending cuts uh with some more
moderator swing state Republicans who
are really worried about uh the effect
that those spending cuts were going to
have um on their electorate um during
the uh upcoming midterms. Um seems that
they were able to reach an agreement. I
think in some cases uh there was some
promises of maybe we can get other
issues that you'd like um you know if
you're a Republican resolved in maybe
you know some separate legislation. But
yes, ultimately uh Trump's got his bill.
He's um going to sign it and then we'll
have to see um you know what exactly the
the political fallout I think looks like
uh going into the next election. Okay,
that's going to become more clear in the
coming weeks here. Jill, thank you so
much. Jill Dus, our news desk editor.
from one sort of fiscal exercise to
another. The breaking news we had out of
China here on more subsidies being
planned to encourage people to go forth
and multiply. Stephen Angel, our chief
North Asia correspondent, is here with
us. The chuckle from you. But yes, we
have a figure now based on our reporting
on this incentive, Steve, to get to get
more couples. I only chuckle because my
multiplying days are well over, right?
But in China, absolutely. The household
uh expenses have gone way up obviously
uh through the growing economy of course
and the the rising cost of living and
then of course the scrapping of the one
child policy uh tried to encourage
people to have more babies. It has
simply hasn't happened. Uh and so you're
already seeing the working age
population. Uh the demographic shift is
quite noticeable. I mean the projections
are for 20 by 2050 it's going to go to
either at 1.3 or below 1.3 billion
people. They've already seated the
world's most populist uh designation to
India. That happened uh in 2023. And the
the the real stark projection is by 2100
my god none of us will be around by
then. But the the population 2100 no
one's going to be around by then. Well,
I mean, I eat myself every day. See,
there's a lot of research for longevity.
You know, let's not write everyone up.
AI will be around. Okay. The the
projection is to 800 million people in
China. That would be an amazing drop off
obviously as people are not necessarily
having births. But this is an
interesting uh policy change because
it's widely believed that Xiinping is
not a fan of welfareism. Is this a is
this a basically a form of welfareism?
handing out cash to families to have a
child. Granted, it's not a lot. $500 US
per child per year for the first three
years. So potentially about $1,500 if
you have one child and then you can have
several childs. So this could be a b we
could see the making of a baby boom or
not. Well, it's certainly a a big policy
push at least, you know, and then maybe
that is what it's signaling that that
sort of turn shift to welfareism.
another big policy p push and this is a
pivot of course but but to to building
those relationships with other parts of
the world and we see that with Europe
but it does seem like they're also
having a few hurdles maybe in the way
well sure I mean there's no doubt as
evidenced by Wong E the foreign minister
is in Europe for this whole week has
been since Monday he'll stay till Sunday
he is meeting with officials in Brussels
in Germany in France clearly sort of
setting the table for in a couple of
weeks this EU China summit
uh which we're hearing from sources. The
Chinese are not necessarily seeing as
many deliverables as they would want
because they usually like to line things
up. They know what's going to be
announced, especially on their soil.
Maybe there's a little bit less clarity
because of the the rising tension, trade
tension, and obviously the geopolitical
concerns. Europeans are really adamant
about their opposition to China's
support of Russia amid the war in
Ukraine. Obviously, the Germans are
extremely upset over the slowness like
the US is of the export licenses for the
rare earth magnets because of the
industrial supply chain in Germany. And
then there's the EV tariffs that the
Europeans are doing. The Chinese have
countered with anti-dumping probes into
Brandy into a number of different
agricultural products from Europe. So
there's a lot of issues. So what we're
hearing is that they're going to cut
that EU China summit in half. It's not
going to be one uh two days in Beijing
in Hu. It's going to be one day in
Beijing probably July 24th. Uh Ursula
Vanderlayan will be there among other
European leaders but you know they need
more talking uh to overcome their
difficulties not a truncated session.
Steve thank you so much covering a lot
of the big China stories today and you
know certainly one of the things that
Steve just pointed out there the the
breaking news we had earlier on the
scoop on more subsidies for to encourage
people to have more children. I mean
it's hard to underscore as well. It does
help and of course in many many places
in China that does go uh certainly a
long way. Market reaction already shares
of pigeon in in traded in Japan now
we're up now 2.2%. This is a company
that effectively manufactures and sells
baby care goods. There you go. I don't
need to tell you when the breaking news
hit. We're up 2.7%. We're looking at
baby related shares going into the open
today. Uh, speaking of 15 minutes away,
the opening bell, Shanghai, Shanzhen,
and here in Hong Kong, this is the China
show. Good morning.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. So US markets were shut overnight
but again the headline on this chart is
I guess in some ways deliberate to
encourage uh debate is US exceptionalism
back I mean certainly when you look last
3 weeks or so this is the gap between
the weekly performance between the S&P
and MCI world excluding the US and it's
almost a pure uh contrast there. Bottom
is S&P against the other major
benchmarks EM China the same one at the
top and as you can see 24% since about
the start of April. Now, all that being
said, 51 points was the last written on
the S&P. There are signs and the
graphics about to show you this that
maybe short-term the rally might have
gotten too far too quickly. So, some of
your technicals are about to come up on
your screens. Things like RSI,
stochastics, Ballinger band, we did
close above that level uh last time we
traded. In fact, successive closes above
that level. I think we had that graphic.
Do we have it guys to fire? Uh 26%
uh over 7 weeks. RSI at 75, stochastics
at 95. Do we have it? So, we can show
it. Oh, we don't have it. Okay. Okay. I
I promise I'll show you that later. Uh
but yeah, I get Bill, I guess it begs a
question. Is it back or is it simply
repositioning given how extreme uh
things were right before this sort of
recent trend started? Well, I think we
got just a person to put that to, but
let's bring in Francis Tan. He's chief
Asia strategist at Induez Wealth
Management. So, Francis, what do you
think then? Is US exceptionalism back?
Well, I always think that the word
exceptionalism is uh is a very
newsworthy word. But at the end of the
day, if you look at the economic power,
the economic size of uh the US versus
the rest of the world, uh it has always
been exceptional. I mean, look at the
past 80 90 years of economic
development. How the US managed to bring
the overall population up in the
prosperity curve. It is ex exceptional.
However, there are of course a lot of
contenders out there right now. I mean,
I I can see China is exceptional as
well. I mean look at how China has been
over the last just 10 years moving into
the technology space. China's speed of
exceptionalism is even stronger to me
right now. So but if you are looking at
equities right now uh I mean US hitting
a record high and whenever it reach
reaches another record high the word
exceptional comes out again but to me
it's just that market was a little bit
um fearful in the past two to three
weeks and now just getting a little bit
more on the greedy part. So I think as
we mentioned just now correctly David uh
looking at the technicals it seems a
little bit stretched how long all this
stretch can be can last for a while more
but at the end of the day it's just
cyclical technical basis. So what's
what's your advice? What outperforms the
next six months? That's right. So
remember if the market is exceptionally
greedy we be a little bit fearful and if
the market is really fearful we be a
little bit greedy. And I'm not saying go
all out greedy but a little bit more
greedy. In this case right now looking
at the RSI looking at all your
technicals market seems to be a bit more
greedy right now. I would say take some
money off the table a little bit ex
exceptionally uh especially for uh for
for clients who are having an outsized
position in US equities and and what do
you do then whilst you sort of take yeah
I mean if you look at the total
portfolio management right now we are in
this part of the economic cycle where
I'm a little bit more positive on fixed
income although many people always
thinks that fixed income means US debt
US government debt. is not true because
fixed income has a big corporate space
as well. So right now we are in this
part of the economic cycle where uh
growth in the US or in major G7 nations
are slowing. We are sort of in the
autumn phase of this business cycle that
really started in 2020. It's time to
take some profits off the equities table
and put them some in in fixed income
because at the end of the day fixed
income in this part of the economic
cycle is an insurance against what we
don't know is coming which is a
recession. Are we sure about where we
are in the in in the economic cycle in
the US? That's that's that's my
follow-up question. That's right. So,
how do we determine that we are in the
autumn part of the economic cycle? Is
very simple. Um interest rates will
start to move lower and that's one
that's what we are seeing the interest
rate futures are pricing in as well. We
are seeing unemployment rate getting a
little bit higher from its all-time low
and his all-time low is around 3.5%.
When it was alltime low, it is summer
actually. So, now it's climbing higher.
But of course it's anyone's guess where
unemployment rate in the US can go. I
mean recent numbers fell back to 4.1 but
uh we we have a lot to talk about the
labor market. Do we do we assume the Fed
cuts this year? I think is yeah our
house view is that Fed is going to cut
two two two rate cuts this year and so
long as we are not thinking they are
rate hiking we are in the autumn part of
this cycle.
What about Asia? What's what's standing
out to you? I'm more optimistic on
Asia's exceptionalism especially right
now we are seeing I mean who knows what
9th of July will be on will come u but
either way Asia will continue to be
exceptional uh at the end of the day if
you look at Asia's share of global GDP
it has been rising over the past couple
of years uh of course most recently we
heard news from Trump about some trade
deals with Vietnam uh well that can be
part of his art of the deal to show to
other nations that see if I'm going to
be a lot more tough people are going to
cout to me right now. Right. But but
what happens? I mean, you mentioned
Vietnam. That that's a that's a deal and
I put that in quotation marks because
because there's really not so much so
far that tells us it's anything that's
really substantial. So what happens if
all of these negotiations become very
protracted as well? That's right. So
what I think Trump wants to do right now
is to showcase to the world that if I'm
continuing to be like that, if I don't
blink yet, I think countries will count
out to me. That's what exactly what. But
uh in Vietnam's case is a little bit
different because Vietnam's overall
exposure to US final demand is pretty
high as a percentage of Vietnam's
nominal GDP is at around 9.3 and this
number is from OECD. It's called trade
in value added. So 9.3% of Vietnam's GDP
is dependent on US final demand
irregardless of them sending their goods
elsewhere eventually ends up in in in
US. So that's pretty high. Of course, if
you look at countries that's near to US,
Mexico is 15.5 even larger. So countries
that have a larger exposure of their GDP
to US final demand will have a higher
probability of cowtowing to what Trump
is going to say. But guess what? China
is 2.8% only. Okay. So Francis will be
rejoining us for some final thoughts in
a couple of minutes. Francis Tan there
uh chief strategist Asia at Indosu as
wealth management rights just under well
quite literally right now under 7
minutes away there we go 6 minutes and
57 seconds as I speak to the opening
bell 710 to 1% 239 the hanging index a
preview of the trading day just ahead
happy Friday you're watching the China
[Music]
Okay.
All right. Welcome back. Very quickly,
uh, some things that we're tracking
interrelated. You I think you have a
seven and 10 year bond sale today
markets. You have silver stocks in focus
on the back of some pronouncements. This
vow to address some of the competitive
dynamics there. Alibaba and of course
Alibaba Health as a function of that and
the intervention again third time this
week on the Hong Kong dollar what that
means for Hibbor and separately repo
rates are at the lowest in 2025 on the
overnight and also the 7-day onshore in
mainland China. Yeah, taking a look at
what's happening in the pre-market
session here because we're just under 5
minutes away from the open and uh we are
going to be watching a couple of
different sectors in particular. So
that's just the broader look here
looking to open under pressure. I mean,
it's that big question around Trump's
tariffs. What are we going to see with
these letters when they're sent out, but
checking in on some specific sectors and
watching the baby related stocks in
particular, really great scoop that we
had at the top of the year rather uh
that China is looking at to subsidizing
uh for for parents to have more
children. That's around $500 US a year.
It's going to be really interesting to
watch though if we see any positive
sentiment hold because names like pigeon
A2 milk are already giving up their
is it necessarily going to be super
effective. Yeah. 500 bucks is it per
year per kid? Yes. US. Yeah. There we
go. Okay. Alibaba very quickly a glance
at that ahead at the open just over 3
minutes away. So yeah, we'll get you the
open just ahead in a couple of minutes.
Happy Friday.
[Music]
Good morning. So, we are a full session
away from the weekend and we're looking
at the clients there on Hang Sen. Um A50
futures are also pointing to a weaker
start uh in the currency markets.
Obviously the Hong Kong dollar seem to
be very much in focus again with us
pushing and well pushing against the
fence and getting pushed back from it.
Apart from that lots of sectors to watch
are going into the open today here.
Yeah, baby sectors or baby stocks rather
are going to be one key sector to watch
because we had a really great scoop
coming into the show this morning about
how Beijing is essentially planning to
offer subsidies to parents to try and
encourage them to have more children.
But I have to say, you know, we're going
into a holiday weekend in the US, but
there's actually a lot of different
things that we could be tracking ahead
of the open in this this morning and and
I think what's interesting as well is we
had that jobs data out overnight and it
was a pretty strong number and it told
us, okay, the Fed maybe we had these
expectations to start the week, maybe
we'd see a cut, the first cut around the
mid year. It's been pushed back again to
September, but investors are still happy
and we saw US stocks again rising
overnight. But today in the session,
it's really that big focus on on trade
and President Trump saying that he's
going to start telling nations their new
tariff rates starting today. Uh that big
question as well as we see deals like
Vietnam for instance, I mean how much
substance is there to those sorts of
negotiations? What are the actual
details? Japan for instance, we're
facing hurdles specifically around rice
and so that is really leading to a bit
of concern that you see overall in the
session today. But that's what the
mainland is doing as we come online this
morning. Also taking a look at at the
Chinese yuan for instance. We had uh the
the currency fixing there pretty much in
line with what we saw yesterday. But
taking a look at those baby stocks in
particular as I said Hong Kong in the
session as well. Very interesting eco
numbers that we had uh just in the last
hour. But the Hong Kong PMI I think
would be I I still find it slightly
surprising because we saw it coming
further into contractionary territory.
So a reading of 47.9
is that right for for for the for the
latest one around that point. academic
but 47 was I think the key there. Yeah.
And importantly deterioration from the
month prior and so the concern there is
again is really what is that indicating
to us about the health of the economy
the health of the private sector here in
particular uh especially as you see
other other really big talking points
which is you know the Hong Kong uh
currency intervention. Yes. third time
this week and the it the the
buying of the dollar has been
incrementally bigger over the last three
sessions or so. Now the other thing is
Hibore hasn't really responded so far
and you know the more they do that the
more Hibbor will respond and to what
extent they could actually
disincentivize a lot of the uh the Hong
Kong dollar as a as a funding currency I
guess in the short positioning there but
anyway yeah that's a big that's a big
talk talking point here today and
Alibaba as well I think is another big
talking point because just taking a look
at how these stocks are coming on
Alibaba is standing out to the downside
1.5% off even though it is broadly risk
off but Alibaba looks to be one of the
big decliners so far in the session they
are looking to to essentially raise more
cash. Uh they're offering uh
exchangeable bonds for instance of Ali
Health. Uh they're also looking at
offering Ali Health Alibaba Health
shares rather in a delta placement.
Yeah, I'm looking at that. Um if we
could just show that to our viewers too.
So Baba's down about one and a half as B
is pointing out. Oh, okay. Here we go.
We're down 8% now uh on Alibaba Health.
That's going to come up on your screens
very very shortly. Uh that now takes
declines in the share price from the
start of the month. rough math is about
I'm looking at nearly 15% now on shares
of Alibaba Health and of course that
that that that big news came I think
after the close yesterday and of course
US markets were closed and not reaction
but yes uh rare earth stew I think are
are in focus rare earth yeah you can see
the Alibaba health but of 7% here shares
had been offered as we said 418 to 428
each in that delta placement but yeah
rare earth's another big one to watch
because I think again these you see
China really putting its foot forward to
to to to try and shore up relationships
with other parts of the world, the EU,
of course, and we've seen Wongi, for
instance, on his tour of Europe this
week. They're planning ahead for a
meeting in in China later this year.
It's just been sort of downsized a bit,
but they are saying that they're going
to be speeding up rare earth approvals
for the EU and that has been a big
sticking point in the negotiations as
well. Yeah. And you know, amidst the the
back and forth on trade and the
uncertainty that remains in many parts
of those trade negotiations, you know,
one asset that's done very well is gold,
right? In fact, what do you do with
gold? In fact, when you look at the
first half, it's been equities and gold
as really the outperformers. Do we
continue to lean into that
outperformance? Francis Tan is still
with us here, chief Asia strategist at
Indou as wealth management. What do you
think about gold? Well, um the
allocation of gold I think is important
for any portfolio right now. Uh
especially uh the when the market is
getting a little bit more uncertain to
what the future will be like in terms of
economic growth. Um but of course as a
rule of thumb in field of finance we
always see that oh allocation to go
should be around 5 to 10% of portfolio.
The question that always get is so is it
five or is it 10 now that really depends
on what you feel about the upcoming 6
months to one year growth opportunity.
Uh if you think that the equities are
currently pretty high up on in terms of
valuation which is exactly what we are
seeing right now alltime high then it's
time to increase some allocation to go.
Yeah. Um well what do you think is 10%
this something I've heard recently is
10% might be on the low side right now
given the sort of structural flows into
into gold. What would your advice be as
a company? It seems like gold is
glittering a lot right now. It really
depends again on the business cycle
theory that I was talking about just
now. If we are in the later part of a
business cycle you should increase your
allocation to go. But it really depends
on your risk profile of a portfolio.
There are investors who are aggressive.
There are investors who are a lot more
conservative. It really depends. But
right now I would say that if it's going
to be only 5 to 10% you should garner
something that's nearer to 10%. Okay. Uh
Chinese equities we just had an open
today. You you said you're mainly
constructive. Of course this China
exceptionalism I think is the phrase you
used earlier on. What would you advise
people to buy in China at this point?
That's right. Um for me I will say that
China will be a long-term uh
accumulation strategy for clients for
for investors right now. Um do not
excessively trade China. I mean you're
going to come out disappointed
especially over the last three to four
years a lot of people that I met has
always said oh China seems to be
uninvestable brother China is
uninvestable I don't think so because if
you look at China's position as some of
the strong tech players around the world
the innovation that China has and if you
just do a quick check or whatever on
what are the top technology that China
is leading the world right now is that's
a lot if I'm not wrong what 37 out of 40
something that's amazing but it can't be
at such valuation right now right
because of a lot of external forces is
because of the US hammering China
because they are the second student in
the class. They can't win the top
student of the class. The top student of
this class is so afraid of the second
top student right now. But what China is
doing, I believe we is offering a lot of
undervalued technology companies. So if
you're into China, do it using a dollar
cost averaging approach to accumulate
Chinese tech. And which parts of Chinese
tech though? Okay, of course there are
platform Chinese techs, there are
innovation Chinese tech, there's AI
Chinese tech. And if AI is going to be
the future and if you think that Chinese
AI will be one of the strong contenders
in the world, AI related Chinese tech
will be one of the key things. Quantum
computing, big data analytics, all these
things will be the key ones that we are
looking at still. Anything to avoid? Not
just in China like anything in general
that you know you think is a is a
mistake. Well, if you have seen the most
recent uh construction real estate
numbers coming from China, it didn't
take up higher. New new home sales, even
the existing home sales, it moved a bit
lower again. So I think uh for now we
would like to hold on in terms of any
exposure to Chinese real estate for now.
Yeah. All right, Francis, thanks so much
for joining us and and definitely come
back to us next time you're in Hong
Kong. That was Francis Tan there, chief
strategist Asia at Indouzer's Wealth
Management and I think a really good
launching point of course from a China
property back into Hong Kong's property.
We planned it. Did we plan it? Yeah.
Well, let's let's say let's take credit
for it. Okay, let's say we planned it.
Bill, come on.
All right, the developer New World.
Let's get more on that because it's
planning to raise as much as $2.2
billion US through a new loan. Uh that's
just days after closing a record 11
billion refinancing deal. Our credit
reporter uh Trista Shini Luo is with us
this morning. So So Trista, I mean what
do you think the market is going to make
of this? It's it's it's certainly I
guess perhaps a step in the right
direction. Yeah, I think people are keen
to see whether New World can close this
deal because it's the first task for New
Wall um to raise like fresh money. Um we
know that New Wall has closed its um
mega refinancing deal earlier uh this
week and right now I think the whole
market is keen to see u whether they
close this one and we know that uh the
current commitment deadline is July 11
so which is next Friday. Yeah. Do we
know well how much do they need further?
I think you know people were talking
about the 11 billion now that's done
they're talking about another two. Is
there any indication that this might be
the last one or do you think they'll
they'll probably need to raise more
money and shore up financing? Well I
think obviously the developer want more
money right but it really depends on the
reality. I think they are trying their
best to using uh the Victoria do side
right now to raise the two billion loan.
I think um right now I think investor
are looking at this because we know that
a lot of banks already have like a lot
of exposure uh on Hong Kong real estate
especially on new wall right now. So we
reported earlier that um the do bank
which which is the arranger for this new
loan sent another round of invitation
letter to uh more banks in late May. So
um and we also reported that some banks
are already say they're maybe reluctant
to join this new loan because they
already have a lot of exposure. So we
need to see how it goes. Have we heard
from New World on this? No. Okay. Well,
okay. Well, as of now, of course, this
is a reporting and you can get more
details of that of course uh on your
Bloomberg terminal uh and also on the
website Tristin Elo there, our China
credit reporter. Let's stay in Hong
Kong, right? because certainly lower
rates have helped but certainly lower
rates have resulted in I guess in
chicken and the egg a weaker Hong Kong
dollar and the HKMA has again defended
the the currency peg third time this
week. Let's bring in our Asia FX and
rate strategist Stephen Chu who joins us
right now to talk us through this. And
Stephen, do you get a sense that the
HKMA is just in the early innings
uh of of of trying to get the exchange
rate back towards the middle and trying
to get and why haven't rates in Hong
Kong responded to the upside is my other
question.
I think given the pack arrangement, we
all know that it's a matter of time. It
depends on the US Hong Kong gap and the
gap is still so large right now that you
will just keep pushing the spot towards
785 and the speed of draining liquidity
whether it's like um these two days or
like last week it's just too too slow.
The aggregate balance is still over 100
billion honky and we remember it it has
risen all the way from below 50. So
probably we need to see faster drain uh
talking about all the way back to below
like 70 80 then we can see a more
meaningful rebound in high bars clo then
it will close the US Hong Kong gap and
we can see spot back to 780 or even
below but for now it's still so slow you
can almost feel that the HK may want to
do it gradually to keep rates low. A lot
of people speculate about the new world
situation. Of course, we can't prove
that. But you can see that compared to
early May when they sort of like inject
liquidity, they are bas basically
draining at a much slower pace right
now.
How long does this extend for this
situation? I mean, we we've seen, you
know, three bouts of intervention in the
space of just a few days. What do we
what do we look like, I guess, over the
coming weeks?
Yeah, to be honest, it's just a pure
guess because it can be a matter of few
days or a week to basically sort of
spike hypoall depends on like how they
want to do it. It's really a wild guess.
But if you ask me, by the end of this
quarter, I think there's a very high
chance that we're going to see hypo back
to like two to 3% range compared to now.
So, it's really a matter of time and
it's getting harder to sustain that. As
you can see now, if the dollar
strengthen again, especially with that
US Hong Kong gap, all the factors are
pointing towards more intervention from
the HKMA.
All right. Well, I think Stephen Chu,
your glasses might just end the peg
alone. Just looking at that kid, Stephen
Steven Chu there, of course, would look
to be candy cane glasses shaped into
circular a circular form. Uh, our Asia
FX and rates keeps we're circling back
again to this topic. Beautiful morning
here in Hong Kong as we uh weave
ourselves quietly into this weekend.
This is a Chinese show.
[Music]
Welcome back. Reuters is reporting that
the US is allowing GE Aerospace here to
ship jet engines to China's Comarmac.
Danny Lee, our aviation reporter, joins
us now. Yeah, Danny, what do we know?
So, we know that the US has been uh
allowing companies or telling companies
in the US that they now have the
licenses uh that they can now export uh
critical parts to various firms. In this
case, we understand as well that G
Aerospace uh has been told by the US
Department of Commerce that it can now
restart uh jet engine exports to China
and in turn this benefits uh Karmac
commercial aircraft corp of China. They
supply a rivaling jet um than what
Boeing and Airbus does. And so therefore
this is a good news for uh for China and
particularly when you talk about the the
broader themes around trade the the
easing on the likes of chip curbs on on
jet engines and other critical
technologies is a clear sign that
between the Washington and Beijing that
there is some kind of uh positivity in
the trade talks uh between the pair the
two biggest economies in the world and
so I think this is a very very good sign
particularly as China was very unhappy
with the late stage uh export curbs on
things such as jet engines. So I think
we can see this the these movements in
the broader context of trade and where
we potentially go from here.
Yeah, the the jet engine is is certainly
one hurdle for for comarmac to overcome.
I mean but if you take a look at the
C919 jet for instance, a lot of its
components do come from abroad. Uh
what's the sales pipeline looking like
for com uh overall?
Well, the sales pipeline is still very
uh heavily focused on the domestic China
market and customers and so uh I think
this is the one of the things is is
going to be of still concern to to
foreign airlines is can they get
guaranteed supply of parts parts that
they'll need not just for delivery but
for constant service and maintenance of
aircraft and so therefore um for foreign
airlines there has been this
discouragement of looking at comarmac
when it comes to buying uh aircraft
purely because you know this risk this
this geopolitical risk of of of the
threat of exports or the suspension of
exports could impact operations. So uh
very much China and KC looking to
broaden its wings as as it were but
still uh very much you know looking to
its home market to boost supply which
has already taken uh very hundreds of
orders in the meantime.
Danny, thank you so much. Danny Lee
there, of course, with the latest on
that. And I think, you know, I think the
news this week, I think I saw that, of
course, Karmac and the the first
international flight, I believe, which
was to Mongolia. I think that goes
nicely into this this next report that
you Well, I think it's really
interesting is is obviously China has
that continued drive for self-reliancy
and you see that with Comarmac where
they're looking at something that can be
disruptive to Airbus or to Boeing, but
you see that as well with their military
weapons and and this week for instance,
we've had the Shandong uh aircraft
carrier coming to Hong Kong for its
first time ever. And what's really
significant about the Shandong is is is
that this is the first time that they
could ever build their own aircraft
carrier and and it certainly is
something that could end up being a
challenger to to US naval dominance as
well. But just take a listen.
Aircraft carriers are a crown jewel of
modern militaries. They enable nations
to project power far beyond their shores
and act as deterrence by discouraging
would be adversaries from escalating
conflicts. Only a handful of navies
operate these vessels with the US having
the largest and most advanced fleet in
the world. But China is on a mission to
catch up. Today the country has two
aircraft carriers in active service, the
Lea Ning and Shandong with a third, the
Fujian, undergoing sea trials. Together
they represent an evolution.
Initially, China acquired and
retrofitted Soviet built technology,
then progressed to making its own.
[Applause]
With both the Shandong and Fujian
showcasing enhancements in design and
capability, now a fourth type is in
development and could be the first
fitted with nuclear propulsion,
potentially leveling the playing field
with American ships.
China wants to become a global navy
superpower.
With the Shandong entering Hong Kong
waters after another first for the PLA,
this time on the tactical front, both
the Shandong and Lean Ning were sent to
the Western Pacific in June, conducting
exercises beyond what's called the
Second Island chain. It stretches from
Japan into the Central Pacific and is
often viewed as a strategic framework
for Washington and allies to contain
China during potential conflicts.
Beijing's maneuvers beyond this point
signal a new phase of operational
readiness with the vessels learning to
coordinate in open waters. While such
activities are permitted under
international law, the show of force is
notable.
Analysts say the tactic could be used by
China to deter US forces in the event it
launched a military operation to take
Taiwan. Annabel Dr. Bloomberg News Hong
Kong.
And you can get an insiders guide to the
money and people and the stories
including this one of course which is a
big one this week shaking up the finance
hat. Our Hong Kong edition newsletter
latest one was out yesterday. Check it
out on bloomberg.com/newsletters.
[Music]
US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent is
dismissing the idea that the dollar's
recent weakness is actually putting his
reserve currency status at risk. Now
Bessant told us that a White House is
taking steps to maintain the dollar's
role.
The price of the dollar has nothing to
do with a strong dollar policy. uh
current currencies move up and down uh
based on a variety of factors but a
strong dollar policy means several
things. Uh one is what what is the
dollar strong against or uh is the other
is another currency stronger uh higher
in price at the moment that doesn't have
anything to do with a strong dollar
policy. The strong dollar policy is are
we doing the things over the long term
to ensure that the US dollar remains the
reserve currency of the world and we
are. We are setting the stage for
economic growth. We are constraining
inflation. Uh we are making the United
States the best destination
for global capital and I think that's
going to continue to happen. I think as
I said um you know me many times over uh
since World War II the demise of the
dollar as reserve currency has been
predicted and I think once again the
skeptics going to be wrong but there is
there is no change in policy fair enough
but I I'm sure you understand that the
weakness that we've seen in the dollar
to start the year uh is something we
have not seen in decades and there are
other countries that have been trying to
take advantage of it in a speech just
this week we heard from and the Chinese
central bank governor who really laid
out at least their vision, the Chinese
vision for a new global currency order
which would of course mean a reduced
role for the dollar and in their view a
greater role for the yuan. Now
regardless of whether that is a viable
plan I am curious as to what you think
about the idea that this is even being
spoken about publicly. Well I mean look
what what are the Chinese going to say
and and by the way it's a complete
fallacy. uh they have a non-convertible
currency. So how are they going to be a
reserve currency? Uh they also have 1.4
billion people who want to get their
money out of China. They have capital
constraints on taking out taking out
money. The uh sin kuan for reserve
currency is that it trades freely. And I
saw my friend Kristen Lagard, president
of the ECB the other day said that maybe
this is the Euro's moment. But I can
tell you if the euro hits 120, Europeans
are going to be squawking that it is too
strong. They are an export economy. So
you know, let's see what happens. They
should be careful what they wish for.
Whereas in the United States, we
recognize the responsibility that comes
with being a reserve currency.
That was the US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent there. Really great interview
and we've we've been able to obviously
see catch up with them a few times this
week, but a very pivotal week given
we've got that big beautiful bill as
well that's that's been passed. But uh
taking a look at how markets are fairing
in the session so far today and and we
are seeing them mostly under pressure so
far. Hangen Tech is leading the declines
here, 1.8% off. I'm pretty sure Alibaba
is going to be playing into that given
we've seen weaker sentiment for that.
They're raising debt to try and fund
their AI needs. We'll have more details
on that ahead. You're watching the China
Show.
[Music]
Welcome back. back. You're watching the
China show this morning and we are
looking at at a pretty downbeat
sentiment day actually coming into the
session. I mean we had sort of two
different things we're watching jobs
report from the US markets like that.
Trump's tariff comments have definitely
overweighted any sort of optimism from
that because we're seeing markets that
are sort of under pressure here this
morning. What's leading the decline so
far are the tech stocks in in in in
China in particular. I think Alibaba is
probably really playing into that given
that they're offering exchangeable bonds
for instance to try and shore up some
cash to then put into their AI efforts.
But but certainly that is definitely
weighing on sentiment. Biggest drop for
Hangen Tech in 3 weeks. Yeah. And it's
it I I mean the the whole narrative
around whether equity markets
particularly in the US to your point
that markets are liking this are
complacent given its summer months and
you know you have still have that July
9th deadline coming through and what
might and the fact that we're not really
getting a lot of traction on many of the
trade conversations taking place. We
know we you know we know many people
want the deal but it doesn't seem we're
substantially close to getting one along
the major sort of trading partners and
and separately of course between the
Chinese and the EU for example we know
some of the the challenges that have
emerged recently there as well. So you
get a sense that the we kind of know the
risk but you know are people ignoring
the risk is is what I'm trying to get
to. Yeah. I think you know these these
as much as you can try and aim for for
for trade deals at the same time it
doesn't really remove that broader
sticking point which is that intense
competition and the effects of that and
I think it's really great actually we've
got Graeme Allison coming up just in a
few minutes because he can talk to us
someone who really popularized the the
term this trap and and could actually
China overtake the US without causing
any sort of kinetic conflict or conflict
at all but uh markets today as you said
it's really trading off that that trade
tensions theme and and also another
interesting one which is the baby
stocks. We can't go without mentioning
that. It's been a really great scoop
that we had just in the last hour, but
essentially the Beijing government is
looking at trying to encourage more more
parents to have kids. They're offering a
subsidy of of 500 US or just over $500
US per year per child for the first
three years for any babies born after
January 1. We've seen some optimism in
stocks, but certainly have come off the
highs of the day. And I think that
really points to that big question. Is
this actually going to even work?
Because you take a look at birth rates
for instance, they're more than half the
amount they were going back 10 years
ago. It's not just about money, right?
There's a there's a change in the
mindset taking place. And again, to just
underscore, right, this is not just a
China issue and phenomenon. It is
certainly in China's case a more perhaps
pressing one given just the curve of you
know, China gets older before it gets
rich and the struggles around getting
consumption up and running against the
backdrop of things like uh, you know,
the property prices, for example. you
know, to me apartment too many
apartments being built for too few
families wanting to start a family, I
think is is the way I'm I'm going to tie
those two things together there. Um but
yeah, I mean to Bel's point, Pigeon was
up as much as two and a half, we're now
effectively flat just an hour after uh
that news dropped uh on Alibaba and Baba
Health and of course the exchangeable
bond uh and the story that dropped 2.7%
on Baba Health is down about 7 and a
half% and the broader read across these
markets Asia Pacific US futures the
dollar and two-year futures which are
currently on the two-year futures
reversing the weakness we had on
Thursday following the jobs report
seeing some gain. gains there. So all
things equal, markets are now expecting
the Fed the first cut to be sometime in
September or October. Yeah. And it's a
big change, I guess, from where we were
early this week because we have been
looking for a cut as early as as the
midpoint of this year. But September is
now the base case once again for
traders. But going back to trade, of
course, it is the big story for us in
the market today and why we're seeing
markets under pressure. Uh, President
Trump saying that his administration may
begin sending out letters to trading
partners as soon as today, that's
Friday, setting unilateral tariff rates
ahead of a July 9 deadline for
negotiations. Our senior editor, Bill
Fairies, is with us. So, Bill, you know,
a lot of uh, I guess lack of clarity so
far, not just on the negotiations, we've
seen uh, that the sticking points, how
they're fairing, and who's going to get
these letters and what's exactly going
to be contained in them.
Yeah, you said it right there. I mean,
at one point at the beginning of this
process, the administration was talking
about making 90 deals in 90 days. Uh, we
are very far from that. And it does seem
like President Trump is at least
personally uh frustrated or or basically
done with the negotiating process saying
that he could start sending out 10
letters uh as soon as Friday in the US
just basically letting countries know uh
what their tariff rates are. You know,
so far we really haven't seen a lot of
deals made. We've had uh we've had
agreements with the UK, with China, uh
most recently with Vietnam, but we don't
really even have the details of that
Vietnam agreement at all be beyond a 20%
uh general tariff and a 40% on uh trans
shipments uh uh going through Vietnam.
So, um we don't know if there are uh if
there are lower rates or different rates
for other products or anything like
that. So, I don't know if we'll see uh
uh if we'll see like a a blanket list of
countries like we did on April 2nd, just
showing uh a kind of a random collection
of tariff rates. Uh but I think markets
and governments are bracing themselves
for news that could come as soon as
later today uh once the US wakes up.
Bill, thank you so much. Bill Fer's
there, our senior editor in Singapore
for us on the latest on this specific of
multiple
um negotiation fronts and talking points
as we I guess try and get more sense of
how these trade deals will look and more
importantly how the trade relationships
look on the other side of any potential
agreement coming through across these
multiple fronts. On that note that we
talked about this just a few seconds ago
with with Annabel here. Uh you have
Chinese government in the meantime here
is said to be considering shortening
this planned summit later this month
with European leaders. That's as even as
foreign minister Wong E visits Brussels
now saying that the two sides must avoid
confrontation over the differences and
their disagreements. Now our next guest
recently met with the Chinese foreign
minister. Graham Ellison is the Douglas
Dylan Professor of Government at Harvard
uh University. Graham, a pleasure to
have you on the show. Lots to talk about
and unpack. Uh good morning, by the way,
from the Asia-Pacific. I guess I want to
start off with just give us a sense of
what the the tone and the message you're
getting based on your conversations with
top top Chinese officials of what what
does it feel like currently to you?
Well, good question and a pleasure to be
with you. I think the I had a great
opportunity to split an hour and a half
with Wong Yi last week in Beijing. He
and I've had a number of conversations
um mainly about geopolitics. uh he and
his boss Shisha Ping are uh have
embraced the uh diagnosis in my book
about Thusidities trap and a thusidity
and rivalry and are deeply concerned
about the ways in which history as usual
uh would lead to a catastrophic conflict
and what they can do to try to avoid
that. He's an extremely uh talented
diplomat. He knows his uh his brief and
he knows his position. Uh he has worked
very closely with Xiinping and I think
the bottom line is that they feel like
they are in a very comfortable position.
They think they're prepared for the
turbulence ahead. You maybe remember a
couple of years ago Xiinping shocked
many people in the world by saying he
was expecting changes the like of which
has never not been seen in a hundred
years. And people make fun of that. More
than two or three people reminded me of
that when I was there last week that
that looks like a little bit better
prediction. They think they're prepared
for turbulent waters. They think they
have a good helmsman. They think they
have a good team. They think they have a
good hand. So I think uh this is uh stay
tuned
and and I'm assuming based off that
conversation you you've felt confident
enough at the World Economic Forum in
Tian Jin to say that we'll see anou soon
when exactly do you expect to see that
and and what would be the contents or
the rough contours of that as well?
Well that's a good question. Thank you.
Uh again, given the unpredictability of
the Trump administration
uh and the uncertainty about what's
going to happen on July 9th, I mean here
here we are just quot five five days
away and we don't know whether they're
going to be agreements or whether
they're going to be extended which is
what Mass obviously hoped would happen
or whether they're going to send out
some letters. So this all seems rather
chaotic and actually from the Chinese
perspective again playing into
competition with the US I'm sure a big
part of the message that uh Wii has been
seeing sending both explicitly and more
uh just just by his presence is that
here's China stable predictable ready to
do trade deals eager to do more trade
business and making the sharp contrasts
with the US. So I think that's the one
side of it. I suspect though uh that for
the China piece since they've already
gone through two rounds of this they
will count that as one of the areas in
which they've reached some level of
agreement. first in the discussions in
the Geneva about the bringing down the
extraordinary trade uh tariffs that
Trump imposed in the first case and then
secondly more importantly in the control
of exports key items including rare
earth magnets. So whether there'll be
another uh uh I'm I'm conf the logic of
the situation would say this is going to
lead in short order to another uh
release of some version of anou that'll
be more specific about how they're
limiting on the one hand US constraints
of items that China needs badly and on
the other China's constraints of rare
earth magnets without which Ford Motor
Company can't run their production line
and F-35 lines uh can't produce new
airplanes. So, this is uh an area where
I think we've been reminded how deeply
entangled the two economies and their
supply chains are and how adults are
going to have to then and I think we do
have adults on both sides working the
problem. U going to find their way to an
uncomfortable accommodation in which
we'll stumble forward. That that'd be my
bet.
So this thisou that we could receive, is
that going to be the same as the trade
truce that that Howard Lutnik said that
the US and China had signed or we
expecting something again additional
there? M my my impression again both
from just the logic of the situation but
also sort of reading a little bit more
into what conversations I have both with
folks in Washington and Beijing is that
they've had a working group working uh
in pursuit of the discussions that
occurred both by the secretary of the
treasury and the secretary of the
commerce trying to spell out in a little
bit more detail uh what the uh what the
rules of the road are for both the trade
and the export controls in particular.
So I would suspect we'll see something u
a written product on that in the not too
distant future.
Graham, maybe just to maybe dig deeper
there because the it it it seems this
has gone beyond to your point more than
just a a framework around a trade
relationship, right? You mentioned rare
earths. Uh I think you alluded to access
to chip technology and I wonder whether
you get a sense that China is directly
asking the US uh to give them access to
chip technology as part of a broader
deal.
Again I have no in I have no information
about that. But again, the logic of the
situation would suggest that they would
be doing so since that's been one of the
constraints that we've imposed that they
don't like and they have demonstrated
that they control a dozen items maybe 60
or 70 which they can squeeze at their
own discretion and which we find
difficulty living without. So if you
just take that in a in a game theory
perspective and you play A and I play B
and we say how does this play out? I
would say we're likely to see some
erosion on the on the chip constraints.
Graham, maybe just to rewind a little
bit, one of the one of the sticking
points and I I want to use past tense
here and I wonder if you could give us
insights on this. One of the sticking
points going into the trade talks was
China felt slighted, disrespected, and
not knowing what the US wanted. Are
those still sticking points you feel
based on your conversations with
officials or has or or in other words is
are are negotiations now on much equal
footing as the Chinese had wanted?
Again a great question and it's got
multi levels. I think you have uh
the uh the Chinese like uh stability,
predictability,
uh the chaos is kind of their nightmare.
And it's hard to deny that the Trump
administration seems chaotic. Uh because
I think it is. And on the other hand, in
the relationship between President Trump
and she, there's a great deal of mutual
respect. They've exchanged a number of
communications, including not just their
phone calls, but letters and otherwise.
And Trump has said over and over that he
greatly respects Xiinping, that he
actually admires him. Uh-huh. So I think
among American political leadership, the
most positive person in the whole system
about Xiinping and his China happens to
be the president of the US. I think they
appreciate that. So again, my impression
is that this should lead over time and
not too long in advance uh to some
meeting between the two presidents in
which they in effect offer their view of
what the relationship ought to look more
like. Now go one level below that to the
current leadership in the US government
and go two layers below to the
departments and then three layers below
to the politics. Most all of that is
quite negative about China, but uh the
least hawkish person about China in the
American government just happens to be
the president of the United States. So
again, this is you couldn't make this
up. It's going to be too interesting to
watch going forward. Yeah, you're right.
That's that's certainly true, Graeme,
and we know those invitations have been
issued on both sides for for for visits.
Uh Graeme, please do stay with us
because we've still got some more
questions for you on where the
relationship goes next. But Graeme
Allison Douglan, professor Douglas Dylan
rather professor of government at
Harvard University sticking with us.
We'll just go to a short ad break.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
We're watching the China show and we've
been speaking about where the
relationship between Washington and
Beijing goes next. Still with us is
Graeme Allison. He's Douglas Dylan
professor of government at Harvard
University and rejoins us now. And and
Graeme, we were just speaking about how
you you had a 90-minute sit down with
the Chinese foreign minister Wongi. And
I I want to talk about about this need
perhaps that we have now for for a Henry
Kissinger style go between the two
administrations. I mean, you once
studied with him. You've also been serve
served in both the Clinton and Reagan
administrations. I wonder what you think
about the need for that type of role and
and who you think could could be the one
to fill it as well.
Well, that's a good question. I think uh
certainly Henry played a unique role and
I don't think it's likely that anybody
will be able to play an equivalent role.
I mean he he was able you know when
talking to somebody like Shishin Ping to
remind them or they were reminded that
actually he was there at the beginning.
Uh so he was there with show and lie and
uh in the opening to China and the
original conversations with Mah and
ultimately the Shanghai communicate and
then Henry was Henry. I was a student
and he was my mentor. I loved him. uh
learned a lot from him, but nobody's
going to nobody's going to replace
Henry. On the on the other hand, the
Chinese have a great deal of both
cultural and historical respect for uh
people that are old. So I at least
qualify as agent uh who may be
professors and Harvard they have a a
whatever favorable view towards stew. So
I've been privileged to be part of
conversations with them about basically
the geot strategic situation and since
the book that I wrote that was published
back in 2017 called destined for war can
the US and China escape through cidities
trap is a favorite of Xiinping it's
obviously a favorite of all the people
that work for him so they've been
fascinated want to discuss ducidities
whom they hadn't learned much about
earlier but now they have and his
analysis of the ways in which when a
seriously rising power threatens a major
ruling power most often that leads to
war and they like to understand patterns
in history and then in particular the
question of how uh war can be prevented.
So the basic bottom line in the book
that uh the thusidity strap book is that
if all we can manage is business as
usual or diplomacy as usual or state
craft as usual then we should expect
history as usual but that defines for us
the challenge. Uh Thusidities was not
fatalistic and I certainly am not
fatalistic. I think left to its own
devices, this is most likely this
relationship most likely to go to the go
the way of history, even to a tragic
war. But I don't think that's necessary.
And I think I'm hopeful that under she
and under President Trump, we're going
to make a a turn towards a more
constructive relationship. I know that
sounds a little littleish, but that's my
hope.
Well, I'm I'm curious about that because
I think in the book you looked at 16
historical cases uh of a Thusidities
trap where 12 had entered in war. So
certainly history of the guide that is
the what could happen. But what exactly
then do you think needs to take place
for that situation to be averted?
Well, again, let me stretch my
imagination to the positive. So both
Xiinping and Trump have said repeatedly
and Trump most most uh vehemently he
says I believe the US and China working
together can solve almost all the
problems. So if you look at uh Trump and
his history and what he says and try to
read between the lines I think he can
imagine that he and she could be the
great he could be a great dealmaker.
uh Trump could be a peacemaker. He and
he and he and she might redefine the
relationship. So when you say US, China,
I think they the first word would pop
out of your the first word you
association would be partner as opposed
to enemy or adversary. Uh now is that
possible? I would say not likely but
impossible. No. Uh particularly if they
began to work on some problems together.
Now what could they work on? Well, how
about bringing end of the war in
Ukraine? Trump imagined that he could do
that in one day or one week or one
month. Here it is now a year. Uh who
could help do that? Xiinping. Uh so uh
what about fentinel? I think the Chinese
have already done a lot on the fentanel
front and I think if you imagine she and
Trump sitting down together and saying,
"Okay, whatever you want to do about
fentinel, we're doing it. You just put
it on the list. That's that's an that's
a easy easy uh win for Shisha Ping. And
on the trade front, I think uh Trump is
delusional about what he thinks trade
can do to improve the US economy, but
he's not dumb. And when he runs up
against a wall or up against Mr. Market
in reality, he retreats. And in the
relationship with China, the trade which
started off as essentially an embargo
with 145% was hurting the US economy. So
again he reduced that the export control
efforts when China pushed back uh we
basically backed down. So again, I think
logic would suggest that this is going
to be a very uncomfortable, uneasy
relationship, but could involve at least
as much partnership as it does uh
confrontation and conflict. I think
that's at least what I mean. I think if
if Trump had his daughters, that's what
he would wish for. Now, between an
aspiration and an accomplishment, quite
a long road, but I'm trying to be
hopeful.
Okay. Well, I guess on on that hopeful
note, encouraging one to say the least.
Uh Grant, we we we thank you so much for
the time and uh let's let's do this
again. Let's do this again soon on
before or maybe after your next
potential meetings, who knows? Um
terrific insights into what's going on
there. They probably need someone like
you is is what we're trying to get to
there. Graham Allison there, Douglas
Dylan, professor of government at the
Harvard uh University. Plenty more ahead
here on the China show.
[Music]
We are taking a look at how rare stocks
are performing this morning under
pressure. Even though you have seen
China looking to accelerate the the the
path toward approving for the EU, we
know that that any sort of delays on
that are being taken very seriously by
the block and it has become a real
sticking point as well in the
discussions. A reason perhaps a a
planned summit for later this year in
Beijing between China and the EU could
be looking to be scaled down. But we'll
have more details ahead. You're watching
the China Show.
[Music]
Welcome back. Taking a live a look here
at a live picture of of Mumbai this
morning. But uh the big story that we've
got this morning is that the Indian
securities regulator has restrained Jane
Street from accessing the local
securities market. and they're citing
essentially alleged unlawful gains of
48.4 billion rupees. And so the the the
regulator, the SEBI has directed banks
to freeze Jane Street's accounts and
prohibited the firm from buying, selling
or dealing in securities until the
matter is resolved. We've just had some
commentary back from Jane Street. Uh
they're saying they're looking to
further engage with the Indian regulator
and as well they do uh dispute the
findings of that interim order too.
Yeah, that that's a big story actually.
Yeah, we we'll get more details on that.
Certainly coming through here uh on the
China show shortly. Uh we'll set that
aside for now once we try and get more
understanding and details of that. And
one of our top stories just to pivot
back here uh this morning was President
Trump uh talking about how his the White
House may be well sending out letters to
trading partners as soon as Friday, I
imagine that's US time, uh setting uh
unilateral tariff rates ahead of the
July 9 deadline for negotiations. Now,
he had earlier announced a framework as
far as deals go with the likes of the
UK. Most recently this week, he
mentioned uh the one with Vietnam as
well as a trade truce with the Chinese.
Yeah. And aside from tariff
developments, uh investors and companies
are also trying to grapple with
geopolitical risks. So, a new survey of
CEOs and board members by management
consultant firm Cornferry has found a
distinct lack of confidence about
handling such risks. Uh for more on how
corporate leaders are navigating
uncertainty, let's bring in Cornferry
APAC President Esther Colewill. And and
Esther, thanks so much for joining us
this morning. I I think it's quite hard
really to separate tariff risk from
geopolitical risk these days, but but
talk us through the the key findings
then from the report. Yeah, certainly it
it it really is and we've seen that that
particular risk on any risk survey has
come to the top and it is top of
everybody's mind. Um, no, I don't think
you can you can separate tariff risk
because it impacts everything. Even if
you're a CEO of a company that only
operates in one geography or even one
country, um, whatever else is going on
globally is going to impact you. Um,
it's the area that leaders feel that
they've got no control over and often
very little influence over. Um, and so
what we are seeing is a need to develop
global fluency much much deeper than it
has been in the past. um leaders really
need to develop muscle around
geopolitics, right? And h what are the
specific manifestations I guess how has
that showed up in your in your practice?
Yeah. So we hiring we see executives
looking for very specific roles um
global or corporate affairs um really
finding ways to get experts to help them
tune out the noise. Okay, there's so
much daily noise and news and that's
that's that's the world you live in.
They have to look to the longer term and
keep a steady hand. Next week's going to
be a huge week, but they still have to
keep a steady hand whatever the tariff
news comes out with knowing that in
weeks or months it will probably change
again. What does capex look like? I
mean, if you sort of just peel it back a
little bit and look at what the Trump
administration is or what they're
partially trying to achieve here is is
reshoring or onshoring a lot of these
technologies. Do you actually see those
commitments starting to come through or
uh CEOs and and other executives just
still waiting to see what actually comes
out in the end? Um capex isn't moving
that fast. Certainly I think that's
everything that we're seeing and many
executives are seeing. Uh even before
the Trump tariffs however we were seeing
a lot of trade shifts move. Uh you know
historically of course Asian economies
have been very export oriented. that's
been the success. That world has really
shifted. Uh China has diversified
incredibly. We see the Middle East and
the GCC countries really looking to move
to Asia and look east rather than just
to America. And so from a global GDP
perspective, that's really encouraging
that level of diversification. The what
does it mean for CEO turnover? I'm just
want to get a sense of that and how why
why it affects that. Yeah. So CU turn
over has been a record high in the US at
AMIA this year. However, it has actually
dropped in Asia and so one of the
conversations I've been having this week
is why isn't it happening or isn't it
happening yet? Um and our team are
having a lot of succession
conversations. They're having a lot of
leadership development conversations. Um
and the view is that that is coming uh
for family offices. um you know some of
the the older founders are now really
handing over because it's a different
world and a different economic set than
they grew up with. Um and we do expect
to see a lot more turnover in CEOs
coming for Asia. What does it mean for
PIP pipeline too? Like what is pipeline
looking like? Is there enough pipeline
in in the Asia Pacific? It's something I
don't think we're very much used to just
yet. Not yet. Not yet. Um there's
definitely been a historic reliance on
western talent for executives coming
that is improving I would say um and it
is no longer the default um so for
example looking for executives in Japan
they will look to Hong Kong they will
look to Singapore they will look to
India um so it's not just the default
any longer it's growing it's getting
better what what does the the overall
sort of what are the compensation trends
that you see as well and you mentioned
that sort of that battle for talent How
is that actually playing out? Yeah,
talent always gets paid at the top
level. Uh the very best performers
always get paid very very well. Beneath
that, we're seeing a lot of flattening.
Uh a lot of flattening, a lot of
freezes. Uh bonuses are not necessarily
key coming up with cost of living. And
so that is a stretch for many countries.
What about hiring in tech? Hiring, I
know that's very very broad, but yeah
topic. um it has really um changed. You
know, a few years ago we would talk
about digital talent. We don't really
talk about that anymore. It's too broad
of a topic. It doesn't really mean
anything anymore actually. It's lots of
different things. So we talk about AI
engineering talent. That is the most
sought after technology talent at the
moment and demand far outstrips supply.
Um, and so actually other types of
talent, for example, the classic CTO
role or chief digital officer role
doesn't really exist anymore. We're
seeing those roles get get spread out
into different areas, get get pushed
into retail, um, get pushed into
different parts of the business. So it's
really become more fragmented actually
in terms of tech hiring. Um we still see
India as really a powerhouse in terms of
future tech talent and particularly
impressive is how they're investing in
AI. It is interesting to see how
countries mostly kind of the brick
countries are investing in AI more
heavily than for example the Europeans.
So I think as we look forward there's a
real opportunity for brick countries,
emerging economies to to step up. I
think as well though and I I think about
sort of some of the the roles that these
more emerging economies do. It's things
like call centers for instance or
support staff that is going to be really
easily replaced by AI. What are you
seeing on that front in terms of planned
I mean essentially it is planned
headcount reductions. We've already seen
them for instance from Salesforce or
Microsoft. Who else is going to be
following? Yes, actually we we are
continuing to see global centers uh grow
in India and the Philippines. um which
I'm a little surprised at. It's been
there for a long time, but they're
continuing to grow. And it's both a cost
play and a productivity play. So yes, um
some of those specific types of work can
be replaced by AI. Um
however, they they get they get
reoriented in something else. So
workforces in some cases are being laid
off. In some cases, they're just getting
more and more productive.
I also just came into my mind of course
Middle East is is a region that's
investing so heavily in in AI and and
also I think it's very interesting to
watch the developments between Asia and
the Middle East but what is that
relationship looking like? Yeah, it's
getting it's getting stronger and
stronger. I think um you know the GCC
countries have invested heavily into
both kind of knowledge worker talent as
well as broader workforce talent.
They've got a very very young workforce
actually which I think will be as
transformative as AI. They've got
millennials and Gen Z will be the
majority in a year or so and this is
going to be a very different workplace
particularly for the Middle East. So
it's going to be really interesting to
see. Um and of course they've got great
ambitions to diversify and be part of
the global economy. Um
you know so the other noise in the
Middle East is very distracting and
certainly unwelcome. the we were just
anecdotal I was having this conversation
with a couple of people this week and it
seems like the younger generation don't
have to worry about leveling up an AI
because it's really part of what they do
and what they study. It's really the
middle manager to the upper management
that sort of had to catch up. And I
wonder from your perspective, what are
the baseline sort of AI proficiency
skills that employers or you think
executives should be forcing themselves
to learn to learn and just get their
heads around? Yeah, I'm I'm of the
generation that only kind of opened a
computer when I was finishing my degree
when I was sending a resume off. And so
we definitely have a completely
different muscle when it comes to this
than the the the Gen Z's and the Gen
Alphas coming through. Um
uh the key trait that we find whenever
we look for recruiting and executives is
curiosity. Um and whether it is for
ability to adopt new tech, ability to go
into new markets, if people have
curiosity, they will learn and it
doesn't matter how old they are. Um and
so when when we've studied this across
multiple generations, it doesn't matter
actually how old you are. uh you can be
in your 50s or 60s or 70s and if you
have curiosity and learning agility and
interest in learning you will pick it
up. Uh so when it comes to understanding
people and moving your workforce it's
the traits as much as the technical
training you're looking for people who
are curious and interested to learn. Put
the training in front of them and
they'll go for it. Okay. Uh final
question for you. I guess risking
oversimplifying using you guys as a
proxy for the global economy. Do you get
a sense that hiring is going to pick up?
generally or is it the the opposite? I
do think hiring is going to pick up in
select countries, not universally. I
think uh the US is going to be uncertain
for a while. Um I think we're seeing
countries like Malaysia really really
pick up. We're seeing India pick up.
We're seeing Japan pick up. Australia
actually is also looking good with a lot
of investment in real estate. So it's
very different depending on what your
economy is looking at. Esther, fantastic
to have you. Feels like we should do
this more often. There's a lot of
uncertainty to to navigate, isn't there?
All right, Esther Cala, APAC president
at Cornferry. And for our Blueick
subscribers, you can watch that. If you
didn't catch it live, you can scroll
back, of course, on TV. Go catch more of
the interview we just did or also catch
up with other stories you might have
missed throughout the programming today.
Plenty more ahead here on the China
Show. Check that out, by the way, on TV.
Go for our clients. This is one.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. We're looking at
baby related stocks still. There was an
initial spike high across some of the
ones that were trading when the news
broke and we'll get to the news in a
moment here. Now, we've since paired
most and reversed if not all of the
gains in many of these names. Um, do we
have them on the screens? Anyway, just
take my word for it. Uh, oh, there we
go. Thank you so much. The the story
here was Bloomberg has learned that
China is planning to offer uh financial
incentives to encourage couples to have
more children. Let's bring in Stephen
Angel, a chief North Asia correspondent
for what we know so far about this. Your
fertility correspondent here, right?
Yes. Right. Um so yeah, China we all
know had the one child policy and it was
basically relaxed and scrapped about a
decade ago, nine years ago, 2016. We had
surge in new births then at 18.8 million
in 2016. That has dropped down to last
year was 9.54 about half. So the birth
rate has dropped considerably along with
marriages. Marriages are at about a low
of a nearly half a century low. So
people are not having babies, they're
not getting married. Uh that is a
serious threat to productivity.
Obviously the labor force in China. Some
of these projections for the demographic
shift in China is that we could see
China which has already seeded to India
the title as being the most populous
nation back in 2023. But that population
is projected by 2050 to go to 1.3
billion and to 800 million by 2100. So
75 years from now uh when I will be long
gone, you guys will still be around. Uh
the population down to about 800
million, but AI will have our all all
our jobs by then anyway, right? So uh
they're going to be offering up some
some welfareism, if you will. Uh cash
handouts to families willing to have a
child about 3,600
3,600 UN. It's about $53 US per child
per year for the first three years if
they have a baby by January 1st or later
of this year. I think though you pointed
to sort of the broader issue which is
that even if you do put that cash on the
table it doesn't mean that it's actually
going to really encourage people to have
more kids because there's those broader
societal shifts that are underway. So I
guess that also points to the next
question for government which is either
what would be the step that they would
take in the direction what could further
incentivize people or are they doing
enough right now to prepare for a
situation where they just don't have a
big enough labor force. Right. So I mean
it goes to the broader issue of a
personal safety net. There's no iron
rice bowl if you will anymore. And
that's why people have been saving their
money and not spending it in times of
uncertainty. Right now the cost of
getting marriage married is so much more
so much higher now. Uh to the point
where you know there was tradition where
the groom's family would provide a
house. You'd have to have a house before
you get married. And then the car is the
other and a car and then in the
international schools for the child. Uh
it it's a very costly u proposition
obviously. So people are holding off
from getting married. So what are the
incentives? Because $500 a year doesn't
sound a lot. U you know China is not the
the the cheap place it used to be. $500
3,600 yuan will not go far very at all
in China. So again I think you raise a
very good question. How much would this
go? In an urban household probably this
would not incentivize having a child. uh
but in the countryside perhaps yes that
would so but yes they they have serious
demographic issues yeah and it's to the
point that you were making in bell as
well like these are broader societal
changes right and it's not just in China
I remember when you look at the sort of
the tax regime in Hong Kong you do get
tax breaks on years when your kid is
actually born and I'm not sure I haven't
had to look at the data whether or not
that's actually led to people having
more I mean you do get more money in
your pocket and whether or not it
incentivizes people not just to have
children but to get I think actually
Hong Kong has a has a faster aging
population than even mainland China.
Yeah. And Japan does. Japan has been
graying for a long long time. Singapore.
Yeah. So there there there have to be a
lot more societal issues and as far as
sponsored daycare perhaps as well.
That's something in Japan that they've
been talking about for a long time. Uh
because dual income households have
become much more common uh across Asia
and including in China to combat some of
those higher prices. uh that uh these
households are facing. Uh so again it's
they they realize that this is a
demographic problem and ultimately a
productivity problem and therefore a
competitive issue on the global stage.
Uh and this is maybe just the first step
obviously. All right, that was our chief
North Asia correspondent Steven Angel
there and we can get to what has been
the most read story on the terminal this
morning. So we'll start with the
background uh which is that India's
market regulator is barring Jane Street
from access to its local securities
market. SEBI also plans to seize $570
million of what it calls unlawful gains
from the US trading firm. That's after
an investigation into derivatives trades
that generated billions of dollars. So
that's the the sort of context and the
response as well came in in the last
couple of minutes. But essentially Jane
Street is disputing or says that they're
disputing those findings. Let's get the
details with senior reporter Abashek
Vishnoy. So Abashek,
just for for people that are unfamiliar,
I mean is this something that has caught
people by surprise or or was this
anticipated?
Yeah, of course it has caught people by
surprise. It's going to send uh a chill
down HFT, Elgo traders, proprietary
traders which became part of uh SB's
broader investigation. Um well if this
fine materializes this will possibly be
the biggest record fine on a foreign
entity of this kind if not uh the
biggest fine ever employed by SEB and
even if it's leads to settlement which
usually happens with cases of SEB or
those who get those that get referred to
the SE appilate tribunal uh it might be
um a record settlement amount as well.
Now this has very broad implications.
This is uh coming in at a time when
India is dling the crown of world's
biggest derivatives markets by contracts
and this has you know implications on
both sides. Um I was talking to a lot of
market participant it may look like a
socialist move. uh it you know looks
like India is very much still an an
emerging market but uh to be fair to the
regulator you know Jane Street made $2.3
billion out of India which is more than
10% of their revenue and India's market
cap is nowhere near 10% of the world so
you know that puts the context um you
know in in in in SE study that had come
out and said that 90% of traders on the
other end retail and others which are
not propriety not elo not HFT were
losing money so they were losing out on
India story I I I think it just shows uh
that regulator is now very well aware
that there are not enough guard rails in
place that there are not there are many
many market inefficiencies that are
getting exploited and they would not
want the India's dividend uh to fizzle
out like that. So definitely we can see
uh regulations moving into this
direction. Definitely we can see some
read through to you know citadels of the
world to brokers who are actually um you
know allowing entry of um you know HFTs
and elos to India there might be some
business impact and to exchanges as well
you know NSC is not listed BSC is so
BSC's volumes what happens to that they
might dry up a little bit and what
happens to NSE IPO I mean NSE IPO was
just getting started and now you know
you have this and NSE has 80 90% of the
derivatives market share so it's it's
going to have profound implic
applications right from derivatives to
cash to secondary to primary markets
and it that's a I mean it's a tricky
proposition because at what point do you
say those are unlawful gains and at one
point do you disincentivize
you know c capitalism I know that's a
fairly broad topic because the reason I
bring that up I mean Abby this is a
105page interim order and then part of
it actually says and correct me if I'm
wrong that this all goes away if they
deposit the amount back. Is my reading
of the situation correct?
That's right. I mean, you know, uh,
David, you have to keep the context of
what SEC does in these kind of cases.
You know, there have been fines which
have run over a billion dollars in at
least a couple of cases in 2022 if I'm
right and you know that puts the context
that's why I was saying that there are
you know people on both sides. It may
look like a move by an EM but it's very
much a DM like move as well. Whenever
there is market manipulation in the US,
there are fines which are running uh you
know close to a billion dollars. Now
unlawful gains, well you know it's it's
not the $2.3 billion that are in
question. It's the 570560 million that
SEB has put it out. So you know a case
could be made why you know let the other
$2 billion you know stay away from from
this uh gamut of fines why only $570
million. There are questions like what
happens to you know um those amounts
that were garnered by traders which
moved from one you know company like
Jane Street to the other company let's
say Millennium right so there are these
questions that need to be worked out uh
and yes the you know it's it's it's it
can be seen if you look at the fines
that SEC makes as a sign of market
maturing India is the world's biggest
derivatives market by contracts it it is
one of the biggest cash equity market as
well and it is also a sign that it is
still very much, you know, in that uh
realm of an emerging market where you
know um if you're making too much money
um you know from um from uh you know
market inefficiencies which regulator
thinks are unlawful there would be fine
there would be implications
Abby thank you so much Abishekno there
our senior Asia equities reporter just
very quickly going into the open of
India of course and we're looking at
futures right now and I guess this is a
big story it's a developing story in it
I mean is it is there anything in the in
the futures market that reflects this.
Perhaps perhaps not. Plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Uh, another day, another time. We're
talking about highore. Well, why not? In
the next few minutes, of course, we'll
be getting that coming out. And the fact
is it's remained quite low despite
what's been taking place directly in the
exchange rate market with interventions
taking place. At what point does this
spike up if it does given all the
interventions taking place on the weaker
end of the ban and of course Hong Kong
dollar being bought incrementally three
times this week increment bigger and
bigger amounts by the HKMA. But yeah,
that's a story to track. Yeah,
girrations there. Girrations in Thailand
too. It certainly been a big week for
political chaos essentially over there.
Coming up in just a few minutes, an
interview with the president of the Thai
Stock Exchange. An exclusive with Pas
Linder Amin on Insight. Happy weekend
everyone. You're watching the China
Show.
[Music]